This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 48-year-old, female driver of a 2007 Dodge Nitro compact utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2005 Dodge Grand Caravan Minivan.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during evening hours on a dark, unlit, asphalt, county roadway. The north/south roadway consists of two lanes with a single travel lane in each travel direction without traffic controls. The roadway is straight, with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry.

Vehicle 1, a 2007 Dodge Nitro SUV, was being driven northbound by the 48-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling north.

Vehicle 2, a 2005 Dodge Grand Caravan Minivan, was traveling southbound in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left into a private drive on the east side of the roadway.

Per the crash report, Vehicle 2 initiated a turn into a private drive and entered into the path of Vehicle 1 causing the right front plane of V2 to strike the left front plane of V1. As a result of the impact, V1 rotated clockwise as evidence by a tire mark in the roadway. Vehicle 1 came to rest in the northbound roadway facing in a slight southeasterly direction. As a result of the impact, Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the southbound roadway facing in a slight northwesterly direction. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, and roof side rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the advanced frontal airbags deployed. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. Vehicle 1 had 2 additional occupants, a 12 year-old female in the right front passenger seat who was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt, and a 10 year-old male in the rear left passenger seat, who was also noted to be utilizing his three-point lap and shoulder belt. The front seat passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained injuries and transported to the local trauma center where she was treated and released. The rear seat passenger of vehicle 1 sustained minor injuries, but was not transported. The driver of Vehicle 1 was admitted with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant.