This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 70-year-old, female front right passenger of a 2017 Nissan Rogue compact utility vehicle. The Nissan Rogue (case vehicle) was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the right plane of a 2009 Lexus ES-350 four-door sedan.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (dark, street lights present) at the intersection of two urban roadways. The straight and level north/south roadway consists of three northbound lanes and four southbound lanes. The northbound lanes are composed of two straight through lanes and one left turn lane. The southbound lanes are composed of one right turn lane, two straight through lanes, and one left turn lane. The roadways are straight and has a 3% uphill grade for the northbound lane and a 3% downhill grade for the southbound lanes leading into the intersection. The speed limit for the north/south roadway is 72 kmph (45 mph), and the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the asphalt roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2017 Nissan Rogue compact utility vehicle, was being driven by a 69-year-old male driver (CIREN case subject) in the left straight through northbound travel lane. The driver was attempting to go straight and continue heading north.

Vehicle 2, a 2008 Lexus ES-350 four-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the left turn lane attempting to turn left at the intersection and head east.

Vehicle 2 began to turn left in the intersection as Vehicle 1 attempted to crossover the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 attempted to avoid a collision with Vehicle 2 by steering slightly left and braking. The driver of Vehicle 2 applied his brakes as an avoidance maneuver. The front of Vehicle 1 struck the right front of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise and traveled a short distance before coming to rest in the intersection in a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise before coming to rest in a northeasterly direction while remaining in the intersection. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The case occupant who was the front right passenger of Vehicle 1, was noted as utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver and passenger's frontal airbags deployed. No additional airbags deployed. The front right passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local medical facility center for treatment. She was later transferred by land to a regional trauma center for additional treatment.

The drivers of Vehicle 1 and 2 did not sustain injury, nor did they seek medical treatment.