This crash case involves a moderately-injured, unrestrained, 21-year-old, female driver of a 2014 Honda Civic two-door coupe, which was involved in a frontal impact with the rear of a 2012 Chevrolet Cruze four-door sedan. The case vehicle's frontal plane then collided with the front of a 2012 Honda Civic two-door coupe.

This three-vehicle crash occurred during the daylight hours on a rural two-lane roadway approaching a three-legged intersection. The north/south roadway was composed of one northbound lane and one southbound lane. The northbound lane curved to the right with a level grade approaching the intersection. The southbound lane curved to the left with a level grade approaching the intersection. The weather was cloudy and the asphalt roadway was dry with a speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph). The north/south roadway had no traffic controls and the eastbound intersecting roadway was controlled by a stop sign.

Vehicle 1, the 2014 Honda Civic two-door coupe, was being driven by the 21-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the left, northbound travel lane, attempting to negotiate the curve and continue heading north.

Vehicle 2, the 2012 Chevrolet Cruze four-door sedan, was traveling northbound and stopped at the intersection waiting on traffic to clear so it could head westbound onto the intersecting road.

Vehicle 3, the 2012 Honda Civic two-door coupe, was traveling in the southbound travel lane, attempting to negotiate the curve and continue heading south.

The driver of Vehicle 1 noticed Vehicle 2 stopped in the northbound lane. She then steered left and braked in an attempt to avoid contact with Vehicle 2. The front right corner of Vehicle 1 contacted the left rear corner of Vehicle 2. The steering maneuver by the driver of Vehicle 1 caused her vehicle to enter into the southbound lane where the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 contacted the frontal plane of Vehicle 3. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise before coming to rest in the intersection while remaining in the southbound lane facing in a west-southwesterly direction. Vehicle 3 rotated counterclockwise and moved a short distance to the east before coming to rest in the intersection facing a northerly direction. Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 3 were towed after sustaining disabling damage. Vehicle 2 was driven from the crash scene.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted as not utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. Because of the impact, the driver's frontal airbag deployed. No additional airbags deployed. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained moderate injuries and was transported by land to a local medical facility center for treatment. She was later transferred to land to a regional trauma center for additional treatment.

The treatment status of the occupants in Vehicle 2 and Vehicle 3 are unknown.