This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted 34-year-old male driver of a 2010 Honda Civic four-door sedan (V1), which was involved in moderate, twelve-o’clock frontal impact with the frontal plane of a parked 2011 Toyota Tacoma pick-up truck (V2). The case vehicle (V1) was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions, seat backrest-mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions, and side roof rail-mounted curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions.

The crash occurred during the post-midnight hours of a winter weekday on a two-lane, east/west residential roadway, with noted on-street parking. This bituminous roadway has a notable negative downhill grade and a slight left turning curve for the eastbound travel direction. There were no center lane markings nor traffic controls present. At the time of the crash, it was dark, but overhead street lamps illuminated the roadway. The weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 40 kmph (25 mph).

Vehicle 1, the 2010 Honda Civic, was being operated by the unbelted 34-year-old male driver in the eastbound travel lane. The driver of V1 intended to negotiate the curved and graded roadway and continue traveling east.

Vehicle 2, a 2011 Toyota Tacoma pick-up truck, was parked and unattended at the north roadway edge (on-street parking).

As V1 traveled east, it drifted left and crossed into the westbound travel lane and towards the north roadway curb edge. At this time, the frontal plane of V1 struck and under-rode the frontal plane of V2 (Event 1). Vehicle 1 pivoted slightly counterclockwise and came to rest at or near the impact area, facing a northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 was pushed backwards and contacted the north roadway curb (Event 2) before coming to rest, facing a westerly direction.

Following the collision, the 34-year-old male driver of V1 (case occupant) was able to self-extricate from the vehicle. He subsequently refused medical treatment at the scene and walked himself to a nearby friend’s house. Later that day (morning), the case occupant sought treatment at a local hospital, but was subsequently transferred to a regional trauma center. The case occupant was hospitalized with minor to serious injuries at this time. Both vehicles were reported to have been towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.