This crash case involves a seriously-injured, 3-point-belt-restrained, 77-year-old, female driver of a 2013 Mini-Cooper 2-door convertible, which was primarily involved in a near-side collision with the frontal plane of a 2002 Chevrolet Suburban 4-door large utility vehicle.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours at the intersection of two urban trafficways. The north/south trafficway consists of three southbound lanes and two northbound lanes with one dedicated left turn lane. This trafficway is level. The east trafficway is a controlled entrance/exit to a private business. This trafficway consists of one eastbound lane and one westbound lane separated by dedicated left turn lane. This trafficway has a 4.3 degree negative grade. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, a 2013 Mini Cooper 2-door convertible, was being driven by the 77-year-old female driver (CIREN case occupant) in the number two, northbound travel lane, approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north.

Vehicle 2, a 2002 Chevrolet Suburban 4-door large utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound in the left turning lane, approaching the intersection from the west. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left at the intersection and continue traveling north. Both vehicles entered the intersection and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left side plane of Vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest in the number one northbound lane facing in a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 partially continued its left-hand turn and came to rest on the north side of the intersection facing in a slightly northeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 did not sustain significant damage and was driven from the scene by its driver. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The driver of vehicle 1, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with buckle pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags and seat backrest-mounted head/torso airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's backrest-mounted head/torso airbag deployed. The driver was not able to exit the vehicle due to the driver-side door being pinned from impact damage. The driver-side door was extricated using hydraulic rescue tools and the driver was removed due to perceived serious injuries. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local level-one trauma center for treatment, where she was enrolled as a case occupant.