This crash case involves a seriously-injured, three-point-belt-restrained, 37-year-old, female driver of a 2017 Nissan Pathfinder, which was primarily involved in a near-side collision with the frontal plane of a 2017 Nissan Rogue.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours at the intersection of two urban trafficways. The north/south trafficway consists of two roadways divided by a raised concrete median. The southbound roadway consisted of two southbound through lanes with a right turn lane (three lanes). The one-way westbound channelized roadway consists of two travel lanes for through traffic and one dedicated right turn lane at the intersection. Both roadways are straight, with a speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph), and the intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, a 2017 Nissan Pathfinder utility vehicle, was being driven by the 37-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the number three, southbound, travel lane approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of V1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south.

Vehicle 2, a 2017 Nissan Rogue compact utility vehicle, was traveling westbound in the far left lane, approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of V2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west.

Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of V2 struck the left side plane of V1 (Event 1). Vehicle 1 yawed in a counterclockwise direction and impacted a concrete curb (Event 2) with its right rear wheel. This impact caused V1 to trip and undergo a right-side-leading six quarter-turn rollover event (event 3). During the rollover event, V1 impacted a metal guardrail with its undercarriage (Event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest on its top in the grassy area off the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage.

Vehicle 2 rotated in a slight counterclockwise direction coming to rest off the west edge of the roadway. Vehicle 2 was towed due to disabling damage

The driver, who was the only occupant of V1, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner actuated), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the first impact, the driver's curtain and backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags deployed. The frontal airbags deployed 36 msec later into the collision sequence. The drivers of both vehicles sustained injuries and were transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver of V2 was treated and released. The driver of V1 was admitted with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant.