This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 38-year-old male driver with multiple deployed frontal and side airbags. He sustained serious injuries when the full-size sedan he was driving was involved in a head-on collision with a large pickup truck.

This investigation also focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted 37-year-old female right-front passenger with multiple deployed frontal and side airbags. She sustained serious injuries as well. No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred during early evening hours in the dark on a dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a two-way, northwest/southeast, five-lane, commercial district thoroughfare with a posted speed limit of 56 km/h (35 mph). The bituminous road was straight and the crash site was situated at a hillcrest. There was a four percent uphill grade for the southeast approach and a two percent uphill grade for the northwest approach. There were no traffic controls in the area of interest.

A 2017 Chevrolet Malibu LS sedan (V1) was traveling southeast in the right lane cresting a hill. A 1992 Chevrolet C1500 pickup (V2) was traveling northwest in the second lane cresting the same hill. Vehicle 2 crossed left across the center turn lane, an oncoming lane, and then into V1’s oncoming lane of travel.

Vehicle 1 and Vehicle 2 collided in a head-on, offset-frontal configuration (Event 1). Vehicle 1 attempted to steer left just before impact, focusing the damage to the middle-right of its front plane. Both vehicles rotated a few degrees clockwise before coming to rest in the roadway, where they were towed from the scene due to damage.

The 38-year-old male driver was presumed to have been seated in an upright position. He was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 28 cm of shoulder belt payout, 2 cm of lap belt payout, and loading of the latch plate. The excessive payout was attributed to his body weight of 202 kg. The available retractor and anchor pretensioners were actuated. The vehicle was not equipped with buckle pretensioners. Deployed airbags included those located in the steering wheel hub, right top instrument panel, left and right knee bolsters, and left and right roof side rails. The available first and second row outboard seat backrest-mounted airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.

The 37-year-old female right-front passenger was presumed to have been seated in an upright position. She was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 31 cm of shoulder belt payout, 2 cm of lap belt payout, and loading of the latch plate. The excessive payout was attributed to her body weight of 119 kg. The available retractor and anchor pretensioners were actuated with the belt found in the locked and extended (used) position at inspection. Deployed airbags for this occupant’s position included the right top instrument panel, right knee bolster, and right curtain airbags. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.

The 18-year-old male driver of V2 was reported by police to be belted with no available airbags. He was treated and released at the scene for minor injuries.