This crash involves a seriously injured, restrained, 45-year-old female driver of a 2015 Lexus ES-350 four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in left side collisions with two large trees.

This single vehicle collision occurred during the nighttime hours (dark, unlit) on a curved two-lane roadway. The north/south roadway consisted of one northbound lane and one southbound lane, with a 9 percent downhill grade and a right curve in the southbound direction. The speed limit is 72 km/h (45 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was rainy and the roadway and roadside surfaces were wet.

Vehicle 1, the 2015 Lexus ES-350 sedan, was being driven by the 45-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the southbound travel lane, attempting to negotiate a right-hand curve and continue traveling south.

Vehicle 1 crossed the solid double yellow center line into the oncoming travel lane. The driver steered right and braked in an attempt to maneuver the vehicle back into the southbound travel lane. These maneuvers caused Vehicle 1 to lose traction and depart the roadway onto the left roadside in a slight clockwise yaw. Vehicle 1 traveled down an embankment where it contacted a 9 cm diameter tree with its left plane (Event 1). Vehicle 1 continued southeast and contacted a tree with a 6 cm diameter (Event 2) and a couple of small trees with diameters less than 3 cm (Event 3) with its left side. After impact with the small trees, Vehicle 1 contacted a large 60 cm diameter tree (Event 4) then a large 40 cm diameter tree (Event 5) with its left plane. After impact with the large trees, Vehicle 1 then contacted another group of trees with diameters no greater than 9 cm with its frontal plane (Event 6), then continued to travel southeast on the roadside and contacted a small group of trees with diameters no greater than 4 cm with its frontal plane (Event 7). After contacting the small group of trees, Vehicle 1 contacted a 6 cm diameter tree with its right plane (Event 8). After the right side impact, Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and rolled further down the embankment where it contacted a 9 cm diameter tree (Event 9) with its frontal plane before coming to rest facing east. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted as utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, first and second row seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's side first and second row seat backrest-mounted airbags and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags deployed. No additional airbags deployed. The driver exited the vehicle after the crash and was found wandering in the woods approximately 36 hours after the crash. She sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a regional trauma center for treatment.