This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted, 65-year-old, male driver with deployed front and side airbags. He sustained moderate injuries when the full-size sedan he was driving was involved in a left plane underride impact to a parked semi-trailer. No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred during midday hours on a dry road under cloudy skies. The roadway consisted of a two-way, east-west, factory access road with a posted speed limit of 24 km/h (15 mph). The bituminous road was straight with no grade and no lane lines, but was wide enough for two vehicles traveling in opposite directions. It is unknown what traffic controls were in the area of interest, as scene access was prohibited.

A 2016 Honda Accord sedan (V1) was traveling west on the access road. V1 crossed left across the opposing direction of travel and departed the left side of the road to a dirt lot, where several empty semi-trailers were parked.

Vehicle 1 first struck the underside edge of the trailer with the left a-pillar and b-pillar (Event 1). Vehicle 1 continued forward, striking the rear wheel and axle of the trailer with the front left bumper corner (Event 2). Vehicle 1 was reported to have rotated counterclockwise away from the trailer after impact, coming to rest on the access road. Vehicle 1 was towed due to damage.

The 65-year-old male driver’s posture was unknown, as the police report and crash circumstances suggested he fell asleep. He was unbelted at the time of the crash as evidenced by lack of belt loading evidence and the EDR report of belt status. The available retractor pretensioner was not actuated. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub, left seat backrest, and left roof rail curtain airbags deployed upon impact. The same airbags were available on the right side but did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a hospital in a private vehicle before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries.