This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 51-year-old female driver of a 2008 Acura RDX four-door sport utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with a 50 cm diameter tree.

This single-vehicle collision occurred during the early evening hours (daylight) of a fall weekday on a winding country asphalt road. The east/west roadway consisted of one eastbound lane and one westbound lane, with a downhill grade for the westbound travel direction leading to the crash area. The speed limit for the roadway was 64 kph (40 mph) and the roadway was controlled by curve warning signs located on the roadside adjacent to the eastbound lane. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2008 Acura RDX four-door sport utility vehicle, was being driven by the 51-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the westbound travel lane, approaching the right-hand curve.

The driver failed to negotiate the right-hand curve and drifted into the opposing eastbound lane then onto the left roadside. The driver noticed that Vehicle 1 was off the roadway, so she attempted to steer the vehicle to the right back into the initial travel lane. The maneuver caused the vehicle to re-enter the roadway, cross both the eastbound and westbound lanes, and then depart the roadway to the right. While on the right roadside, Vehicle 1 entered a ditch, which caused its undercarriage to contact the ditch (Event 1). Vehicle 1 continued along the ditch and its right plane swiped a small tree (Event 2). After swiping the small tree, Vehicle 1 continued and swiped a speed limit sign with the rear of its left plane (Event 3). Vehicle 1 continued along the ditch and contacted two small saplings with its front plane (Event 4 & 5). Vehicle 1 continued forward over the small trees and then contacted a 50 cm diameter tree with its front plane (Event 6). Vehicle 1 came to rest at the large tree while still off the roadside, facing in a northwesterly direction.

The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor and buckle pretensioners), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the last impact (Event 6), the driver's frontal airbag and backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags deployed. The roof rail-mounted curtain airbags did not deploy. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment.