This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 28-year-old, female driver of a 2017 Nissan Sentra four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a near-side collision with the frontal plane of a 2017 Ford Explorer mid-size sport utility police cruiser.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the evening hours (daylight) of a fall weekend at the intersection of two urban roadways. The north/south roadway consisted of one northbound through-lane, a two-way left-turn lane, and one southbound through-lane, with a downhill grade for the southbound travel direction leading into the intersection. The two-way east/west roadway consisted of two travel lanes. The eastbound roadway had an uphill grade leading into the intersection and was controlled by a stop sign. Both roadways were straight, with a speed limit of 40 km/h (25 mph) for the east/west lanes and 48 km/h (30 mph) for the north/south lanes. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2017 Nissan Sentra four-door sedan, was driven by the 28-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the eastbound travel lane, and was stopped at the intersection. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left across the southbound through-lane and two-way turn lane to travel northbound. Vehicle 2, a 2017 Ford Explorer police vehicle, was traveling southbound in the south through-lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The police officer driver of Vehicle 2 was responding to an emergency and intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling south.

Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 struck the left plane of Vehicle 1 (Event 1). Both vehicles were redirected southeast. After rotating approximately 270 degrees counterclockwise, V1 struck and mounted the northbound curb with its right-front wheel (Event 2) before coming to rest straddling the curb, facing in a southeast direction. Vehicle 2 traveled approximately 60 meters after the impact with Vehicle 1, impacted the northbound curb (Event 3) and departed the roadway. Vehicle 2 traveled through the roadside and then crossed over the eastbound and westbound travel lanes of an adjacent intersection, where it impacted the eastbound curb (Event 4) and departed the adjacent roadway. Vehicle 2 then struck a concrete block wall with its front plane (Event 5). Vehicle 2 came to rest straddling the curb, facing in a southeast direction.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags that deployed as a result of the first impact. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported by land to a local trauma center and was treated and released.