This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 34-year-old male driver of a 2011 Honda Fit four-door hatchback, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the right side of a 2014 Nissan Altima four-door sedan.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the late evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a fall weekend at the intersection of two city roadways. The north/south roadway consisted of four northbound lanes and six southbound lanes, with the left far-left southbound lane being a U-turn lane and the adjacent lane being a left turn-only lane. The northbound lanes were straight with a downhill grade leading to the intersection. The southbound lanes were straight with an uphill grade. The speed limit for both travel directions was 89 kmph (55 mph) and the intersection was controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2011 Honda Fit four-door hatchback, was being driven by the 34-year-old male driver (CIREN case subject) in the lane adjacent to the far-right, northbound travel lane while approaching the intersection from the south. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north.

Vehicle 2, a 2014 Nissan Altima four-door sedan, was traveling southbound in the left turn lane, approaching the intersection from the north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to turn left onto the intersecting roadway to travel east.

Both vehicles entered the intersection at the same time and the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the right side plane of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). Both vehicles were redirected to the northeast corner of the intersection. Vehicle 1, while rotating clockwise, struck the right plane of Vehicle 2, which was rotating counterclockwise, with its left plane (Event 2). Vehicle 1 was redirected slightly to head east-northeast and swiped a yellow plastic barrier-post (Event 3) located at the edge of a gore between the eastbound and westbound travel lanes with its left plane. After contacting the yellow barrier-post, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered right causing Vehicle 1 to depart the roadway onto the southeast roadside. Vehicle 1 traveled approximately 9.5 meters (31 feet) and struck an 11 centimeter diameter tree with its frontal plane (Event 4). Vehicle 1 came to rest while still on the roadside, facing the struck tree in a southeast direction. Vehicle 2 came to rest after traveling northeast and over the gore of the intersecting roadway, facing northeast in the right turn lane of the intersecting roadway. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted to be utilizing his three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the first impact, the driver's frontal and side airbags deployed. The driver sustained serious injuries, but initially declined treatment and traveled home from the crash scene. Later, the driver was transported to a local hospital and was subsequently transferred by ground ambulance to the enrolling CIREN center for treatment.

The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported by land to a local hospital; however, his treatment status was unknown.