This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unbelted, 21-year-old, female driver with deployed steering wheel and right instrument panel airbags. She sustained serious injuries when the compact-sized sedan she was driving was involved in a frontal impact to a curb, a metal light pole, and then a two quarter-turn rollover onto its roof. An unbelted, 21-year-old, female was occupying the right front seat.

The crash occurred during mid-morning hours on a dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a six-lane urban thoroughfare separated by a raised concrete median. There were two southbound and four northbound lanes. There was a three-leg intersection with no signal light controls just south of the first point of impact. The posted speed limit was 56 km/h (35 mph). The bituminous asphalt road was curved left in the southbound direction of approach with minimal superelevation and a 2% downhill grade.

A 2009 Toyota Yaris sedan (V1) was traveling south in the left of two lanes, intending to merge into the right lane past slower traffic in the right lane. V1 accelerated and steered right to merge, causing the vehicle to lose control and travel off the right side of the road into a curb (Event 1). The left front tire deflated as a result of damage sustained in the impact. After traveling a short distance through a gas station lot, the front plane of V1 struck a metal light pole (Event 2). The impact caused the pole to be uprooted from the ground and V1 to begin a counterclockwise rotation. V1 subsequently rolled right two quarter-turns (Event 3), contacting the pole with its top plane during the rollover, before coming to rest on its roof in the three-leg intersection on the south side of the gas station lot. A minor fire started at an unknown point in time in the right front floor pan area. The carpet and front of the glove box were burned and melted. No injuries appear to have been sustained by the vehicle occupants as a result of the fire. The police did not report the fire so it was presumed to have occurred post-crash, post-tow. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

The 21-year-old female driver of V1 was presumed to be seated in an upright position. She was unbelted at the time of the crash, as evidenced by the belt being locked in the retracted position by the actuated pretensioner. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The front steering wheel and right instrument panel airbags deployed upon impact with the light pole (Event 2), as confirmed by the EDR. The available curtains and first row seat backrest-mounted airbags were not deployed. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a trauma center where she was treated for serious injuries.

The 21-year-old female right front passenger of V1 was transported to a trauma center where she was treated for moderate injuries.