This crash involves a 2007 Nissan Versa five-door hatchback that sustained frontal impacts to several fixed objects, with a primary impact to a utility pole. The seriously-injured, unbelted, 33-year-old female driver is the CIREN case subject.

This single-vehicle crash occurred under dark, clear conditions on an unlighted, two-lane, rural, asphalt, and non-divided trafficway. The dry, level, two-lane, curved road travels north/south without traffic controls. There is a posted speed limit of 88 km/hr (55 mph).

Vehicle 1(V1), a 2007 Nissan Versa five-door hatchback, was being driven northbound by the 33-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the northbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue driving northbound.

V1 departed the east edge of the roadway in the left-hand curve and impacted a road sign with breakaway pole (Event 1) with its frontal plane. V1 then continued traveling off the roadway in a northeasterly path across a private drive where it struck a mailbox on a wooden pole (Event 2) with its frontal plane. V1 continued its northeasterly direction and traversed a sloping embankment, impacting a 31 cm utility pole (Event 3), rotated clockwise, and came to rest facing east. The vehicle was towed due to damage sustained in the crash. The 31 cm utility pole was cracked and was replaced due to the damage.

The driver of V1 was seated in a normal upright posture. Per report she was restrained by the three-point seat belt, but the physical evidence found at inspection indicated she was not wearing her three-point seat belt. The advanced frontal airbags, passenger seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbag, and passenger roof side rail-mounted curtain airbag deployed as a result of the impact. The 33-year-old female driver sustained serious injuries. She was transported by land EMS to local hospital. Due to the severity of her injuries, she was then transferred by air ambulance to a level-one trauma center where she was enrolled as CIREN case occupant.