This crash case involves a seriously-injured, unbelted, 39-year-old male driver of a 2011 KIA Soul five-door subcompact utility wagon, which was involved in a frontal collision with the rear plane of a 2007 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 extended cab pickup.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the pre-dawn hours (dark, street lights present) of a fall weekday at the intersection of two urban roadways. The crash only involved the eastern leg of the intersection. The westbound lanes of the eastern leg consisted of four westbound lanes that included a right turn lane, two through lanes, and a left turn lane. The three eastbound lanes of the eastern leg consisted of a merge lane from the intersecting road and two through-lanes. The roadway was straight with a speed limit of 89 kmph (55 mph), and the intersection was controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2011 KIA Soul five-door subcompact utility wagon, was being driven by the 39-year-old male driver (CIREN case subject) in the left through-lane of the westbound travel lanes approaching the intersection from the east. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, a 2007 Chevrolet Silverado 2500 extended cab pickup, was stopped in the left through-lane of the eastbound lanes behind other stopped vehicles. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to wait for the traffic signal to turn green and cross through the intersection and continue traveling west.

As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, its driver did not notice the vehicles stopped ahead at the traffic light. The traffic signal turned green and Vehicle 2 began to slowly move forward. The frontal plane of Vehicle 1 struck the rear plane of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). Both vehicles came to rest in the left through-lane of the westbound lane facing in a westerly direction. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. Vehicle 2 was not towed nor disabled.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted to not be utilizing his three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the first impact, the driver's frontal steering wheel hub airbag deployed. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. He was later transferred to a regional trauma center where he received additional treatment.

The driver of Vehicle 2 was transported by land to a local trauma center and was treated and released.