This crash case involves a seriously-injured, unrestrained, 32-year-old, female driver (case subject) of a 2014 Ford Focus four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2010 Honda Civic four-door sedan.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the predawn hours (dark, unlit) on a straight three-lane roadway. The east/west roadway consists of one eastbound lane and two westbound lanes, with a four percent uphill grade for the westbound lanes. There was a three percent downhill grade for the eastbound travel direction. The roadway is straight, with a speed limit of 80 km/h (55 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2014 Ford Focus sedan, was being driven by the 32-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the far left, westbound travel lane, attempting to go straight and continue heading west.

Vehicle 2, a 2010 Honda Civic four-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the single eastbound lane attempting to go straight and continue heading east.

Vehicle 1 crossed the solid double yellow center lane lines into the oncoming traffic lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 noticed the other vehicle encroaching into her lane, applied the vehicle’s brakes, and steered left in an attempt to avoid a collision. The driver of Vehicle 1 noticed that she was in the opposing lane and steered right also in an attempt to avoid a collision with Vehicle 2. Both drivers were unsuccessful in avoiding the collision. The front of Vehicle 1 struck the front of Vehicle 2 (event 1). Vehicle 1 rotated clockwise before coming to rest in a northwesterly direction while straddling the solid double yellow lane lines. Vehicle 2 rotated counterclockwise before coming to rest in a northeasterly direction while also straddling the solid double yellow lane lines. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted as not utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal airbag and knee bolster-mounted airbag deployed. No side-impact airbags deployed. The driver of Vehicle 1 sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local medical facility center for treatment. She was later transferred by land to a regional trauma center for additional treatment.

The driver and right-front passenger of Vehicle 2 were transported by land to a local hospital. Their treatment status is unknown. The right-rear passenger of Vehicle 2 was transported by air to a regional hospital. His treatment status is unknown.