This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 82-year-old, male driver with deployed frontal, knee bolster, roof rail-mounted curtain, and seat backrest-mounted airbags and a belted 81-year-old, female right-front passenger with deployed frontal, roof rail-mounted curtain, and seat backrest-mounted airbags. The driver sustained moderate injuries and the right-front passenger sustained serious injuries when their utility vehicle was involved in a frontal impact with a 2000 Plymouth Voyager minivan.

The crash occurred during daylight hours on a snow- and ice-covered roadway under snowy weather conditions. The roadway consisted of a two-way, two-lane, rural highway with a posted speed limit of 56 km/h (35 mph). The bituminous roadway begins straight (level grade) for our case vehicle before transitioning to a left curve (level grade). The bituminous roadway for Vehicle #2 begins straight (-1% grade pre-impact) before transitioning to a right curve (level grade). There were no lane markings for the outer edge of the roadway and the north and south travel lanes were divided by double yellow lines.

The 2016 Subaru Forester (V1) was traveling north in the right lane approaching the left curve and the 2000 Plymouth Voyager (V2) was traveling south. As V2 entered a right curve, it slid on the snow- and ice-covered roadway and traveled across the double yellow line. The front plane of V2 impacted the front plane of V1. After initial impact, V1 was redirected rearward and off the right (east) road edge. The right plane of V1 impacted a fencepost before continuing down a small embankment to final rest. After initial impact, V2 separated to its right, traveled back across the center line and through to its original travel lane. Final rest was evidenced by a fluid stain located on the southwestern area of the southbound roadside. V1 and V2 were towed from the scene due to damage.

The 82-year-old male driver (case occupant) was presumed to be seated in an upright position at the time of the impact with V2 (event #1). The driver was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by loading marks on the restraint. The steering wheel hub, knee bolster, seat backrest, and curtain airbags all deployed upon impact with V2. This case occupant was transported by ground from the scene to a local hospital, and then transferred by ground to a local trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries.

The 81-year-old female right-front passenger (case occupant) was presumed to be seated in an upright position at the time of the impact with V2 (event #1). The passenger was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by loading marks on the restraint. The front, seat backrest, and curtain airbags all deployed upon impact with V2. This case occupant was transported by ground from the scene to a local hospital, and then transferred by ground to a local trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.