This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 46-year-old female driver of a 2012 Toyota Camry four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal impact collision with a 2002 BMW X5 compact utility vehicle. This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on a two-way asphalt roadway with one northbound travel lane and one southbound travel lane. The roadway is straight, with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph), and without traffic controls. At the time of the crash, the weather was cloudy and the roadway surface was wet. Vehicle 1, a 2012 Toyota Camry four-door sedan, was being driven by the 46-year-old female driver in the northbound travel lane. The driver of V1 intended to continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2002 BMW X5 compact utility vehicle, was traveling in the southbound travel lane. The driver of V2 intended continue traveling south. Vehicle 2 drifted across the center line into the northbound travel lane and into the path of V1, striking the left frontal plane of V1 with the left frontal plane of V2. Vehicle 1 rotated approximately 180 degrees and came to rest partially off the right side of the northbound travel lane facing in a slight southwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated approximately 180 degrees in the northbound travel lane and came to rest facing in a slight northeasterly direction. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage sustained in the crash. The driver of V1 was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's steering wheel, bottom instrument panel, and roof side rail airbags deployed. The passenger in V1, a 15-year-old female, occupied the right front passenger seat and was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The passenger side top and bottom instrument panel and roof side rail airbags deployed. The drivers of both vehicles sustained injuries and were transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver of V1 was admitted with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant. The passenger of V1 sustained injuries and was transported to the local trauma center where she was admitted.