This case involves a seriously-injured, three-point lap and shoulder belt-restrained, 59-year-old, female driver of a 2013 Mazda Miata/Mx 5, which was involved in a rear-end collision with the frontal plane of a 2004 Mercedes-Benz S430 four-door sedan, followed by a secondary collision that involved a frontal impact of the case vehicle. The qualifying injuries were sustained in the frontal impact.

This three-vehicle collision occurred during the daylight hours at the intersection of two rural roadways. The north/south roadway consists of one northbound lane and one southbound lane, with a level grade in both directions. The speed limit for this roadway is 89 km/h (55 mph). There were no traffic control devices present on the north/south travel lanes. The east/west travel lanes are non-divided, two way travel, with stop signs controlling traffic flow. The roadway is level with a posted speed limit of 56 km/h (35 mph.).Vehicle 1, a 2013 Mazda Miata/Mx 5, two-door convertible coupe , was being driven by a 59-year-old female driver (CIREN case occupant) .Vehicle 1 was traveling north, slowing to allow a slowing vehicle (V3) to complete a right-hand turn, then was intending to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north.

Vehicle 2, a Mercedes-Benz S430 four-door sedan, was traveling north. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to cross through the intersection and continue traveling north.

Vehicle 3, a 2011 Kia Optima four-door sedan, was traveling north. The driver of Vehicle 3 was intending to make a right-hand turn onto the westbound roadway.

As Vehicle 1 approached the intersection, it slowed for Vehicle 3, which was attempting to make a right-hand turn. Vehicle 2 braked, but was unable to stop, causing the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 to strike the rear plane of Vehicle 1. After the rear impact from Vehicle 2, Vehicle 1 then continued forward and struck the rear plane of Vehicle 3 with its front plane. Vehicle 3 exited the western edge of the roadway and came to rest partially on the earthen shoulder and northbound lane of travel. Vehicle 1 partially exited the roadway and came to rest with its right-side tires off the western edge of the roadway and its left side tires in the northbound travel lane.

The driver, who was the only occupant of Vehicle 1, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt, and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags and seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags. As a result of the collision sequence, no crash countermeasures were deployed. She sustained serious injuries and was transported to a level-one trauma center and enrolled as CIREN occupant. The drivers of Vehicle 2 and 3 refused transport and received no medical treatment.