This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 30-year-old, male driver with deployed right curtain and left knee bolster airbags. He sustained critical injuries when the intermediate-size sedan he was driving was involved in a right plane, angled impact to the front of a medium/heavy truck. No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred during early evening hours on dark but lighted dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a three-leg suburban intersection with no signal light controls. The two vehicles were traveling on the north/south roadway approaching the intersection from opposite directions. The posted speed limit was 56 km/h (35 mph). The bituminous asphalt road was curved left in V1’s northbound direction of approach with minimal superelevation or grade. V2’s southbound approach was straight with minimal grade.

A 2013 Ford Focus sedan (V1) was traveling north in the middle lane of a three-lane road intending to make a left turn at the intersection. A decommissioned 1968 military cargo truck (V2) was traveling south in the right lane of a two-lane road intending to go straight through the intersection.

V1 turned left across V2’s direction of travel. The right plane of V1 was struck by the front plane of V2 (Event 1). The front plane of V2 included a large bumper extension beyond the front axle, causing it to intrude through V1’s greenhouse area. V1 was then pushed southwest from impact by V2 into the southwest curb, striking it with its left wheels (Events 2 and 3). The two vehicles came to rest still in contact with each other in the southwest corner of the intersection. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The 30-year-old male driver of V1 was presumed to be seated in an upright position. He was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 5 cm of shoulder belt payout as well as loading of the latch plate. The available outboard anchor and retractor pretensioners were actuated. The left knee bolster and right curtain airbags deployed upon impact. The available steering wheel hub, left curtain, and 1st row seat backrest-mounted airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a trauma center where he later succumbed to critical injuries.

The 24-year-old male driver of V2 and his 4-year-old right front passenger were not injured or treated at the time of the crash.