This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained 52-year-old female driver of a 2016 Jeep Patriot small utility vehicle, which was involved in a frontal collision with the back plane of a 2001 Acura Integra two-door hatchback. After separation from this impact, the Jeep tripped and rolled over as it traveled to final rest. This two-vehicle collision occurred during pre-dawn hours on a dark, but lighted, asphalt, urban, multi-lane interstate. The roadway travels primarily north/south. The southbound traffic-way consisted of a six-lane roadway with the far left lane as a dedicated HOV lane. The roadway was straight, with a posted speed limit of 105 km/h (65 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, a 2016 Jeep Patriot, was being driven southbound by the 52-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the number six, HOV, travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling southbound. Vehicle 2, a 2001 Acura Integra, was disabled and stopped in the sixth southbound travel (HOV) lane. The police report indicated that Vehicle 2 had experienced mechanical difficulty and did not have any activated lights or flashers. The Jeep driver reportedly braked hard and steered to the right in an attempt to avoid the crash. The front plane of Vehicle 1 struck the back plane of Vehicle 2. The impact displaced both vehicles to the south and caused Vehicle 1 to rotate clockwise as it separated from the Acura. The Jeep then tripped into a left-side leading four quarter-turn rollover event coming to rest on its tires in lane four facing north. Vehicle 2 rotated in a counterclockwise direction coming to rest in the number five lane facing south. All vehicles were towed from scene due to disabling damage. The driver and front-seat passenger of Vehicle 1 were noted to be utilizing their three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The Jeep was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags and as a result of the impact, the steering wheel and top instrument panel airbags deployed. Of note, the side curtain airbags did not deploy. The driver and passenger of Vehicle 1 were transported by ground EMS to a local trauma center with serious injuries. The driver of vehicle 1 was enrolled as the CIREN case occupant. The driver of Vehicle 2, was deceased at the scene. The passenger of Vehicle 2 was extricated and taken to a local trauma center with serious injuries.