This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 53-year-old, male driver of a 2011 Subaru Legacy four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2012 Honda Civic sedan.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during pre-dawn hours on a dark, but lighted, asphalt, urban, multi-lane interstate. The southbound traffic-way consists of a seven-lane roadway (seventh lane is a dedicated HOV lane) that are separated from the northbound traffic-way by a positive concrete traffic barrier. There is a dedicated right turning lane to exit the interstate. The roadway is straight, with a posted speed limit of 113 km/h (70 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surfaces were dry.

Vehicle 1, a 2011 Subaru Legacy, was being driven southbound by the 53-year-old male driver (CIREN case subject) in the number four travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south.

Vehicle 2, a 2012 Honda Civic, was traveling northbound in the southbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 entered the interstate from an exit ramp traveling against the flow traffic in the wrong direction.

Vehicle 2 continued north in the southbound lane of travel and struck the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane. This impact caused Vehicle 1 to rotate in a counterclockwise direction across the seventh travel lane (HOV lane) and onto the paved shoulder of the roadway. Vehicle 1 then struck the concrete traffic barrier with its back left plane. Vehicle 1 came to rest on the shoulder facing in a northwesterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated in a clockwise direction coming to rest in the number three travel lane facing south. All vehicles were towed from scene due to disabling damage.

The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing his three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal airbag and passenger backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags deployed. The driver of Vehicle 1 was transported by ground EMS to a local hospital then transferred to the trauma center with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant.

The driver and sole occupant of Vehicle 2, was deceased at the scene.