This case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 41-year-old, female driver of a 2012 Nissan Rogue four-door Sport Utility Vehicle, involved in a multi-event-crash. The primary event in this crash involved a collision between the frontal plane of the case vehicle and the frontal plane of a 2005 Ford Focus four-door sedan. Prior to this collision, the case vehicle sustained a far-side sideswipe collision with a 2001 Volvo S60.

This four-vehicle collision occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lights present) on a multi-lane urban interstate. This trafficway is composed of asphalt and has seven lanes that primarily travel in an east and west direction and are separated by a Jersey barrier. The eastbound lanes have a negative four percent grade and four travel lanes. The westbound roadway has three travel lanes. The roadway is straight with no traffic control devices. There is a posted speed limit of 113 km/h (70 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2012 Nissan Rogue, driven by the 41-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject), was traveling in the number two eastbound travel lane.

Vehicle 2, a 2001 Volvo S60, was driven by an unknown age male in the number one, eastbound travel lane.

Vehicle 3, a non-occupied 2012 Chevrolet Cruze was parked on the southern shoulder of the eastbound lane.

Vehicle 4, a 2005 Ford Focus, driven by a 28-year-old female, was traveling eastbound in the number four travel lane.

Vehicle 2 drifted to the right of the roadway and entered the south edge of the right shoulder. While on the shoulder, the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 impacted the rear plane of Vehicle 3 (Event 1). This impact redirected Vehicle 2 back onto the roadway, where the left side of Vehicle 2 impacted the right side of Vehicle 1 (Events 2 and 3) in a sideswipe. This impact caused Vehicle 1 to enter into a counterclockwise rotation. Vehicle 1 exited lane two, crossed lane three and entered the number four travel lane into the path of vehicle 4 where the frontal plane of Vehicle 4 impacted the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 (Event 4). The impact caused Vehicle 4 to rotate in a counterclockwise direction where it impacted a Jersey barrier with the frontal plane (Event 6). Vehicle 4 continued to rotate in a counterclockwise direction coming to rest facing in a northeasterly direction on the north shoulder. Vehicle 1 rotated a short distance in a clockwise direction coming to rest facing northeast in the number three, eastbound travel lane. Vehicle 2 rotated in a clockwise direction and impacted the Jersey barrier with the rear plane (Event 5). Vehicle 2 continued to rotate in a clockwise direction for a short distance and came to rest facing northeast in the number three, eastbound travel lane. All vehicles were towed from the scene due to disabling damage. Vehicle 1 also had a small fire contained to the engine compartment (Event 7).

The driver of Vehicle 1, who was the only occupant of the vehicle, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of Event 4, the driver's frontal airbag, backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags and driver side roof rail-mounted curtain airbags deployed. The case occupant self-extricated herself from the vehicle and was transported by ground EMS to a level-one trauma center and enrolled as a case occupant.

The driver of Vehicle 2 was ejected from the vehicle and was deceased at the scene. The driver of Vehicle 4 was transported to a level-one trauma center and was admitted for her injuries.