This crash involves a 2011 Ford Fusion, four-door intermediate wheelbase sedan that was involved in a multi-event crash with a primary event involving a severe override impact to the rear plane with the front plane of a 2013 Freightliner tractor/trailer (Vehicle 2), followed by a less severe underride impact to the frontal plane of Vehicle 1 to the rear plane of a 2016 Freightliner tractor/trailer (Vehicle 4). There was also an initial impact with the front plane of the 2013 Freightliner and the rear plane of a 2002 Ford Explorer (Vehicle 3).

This multi-vehicle crash occurred during the early morning, dark hours on an urban non-lighted multi-lane interstate at an interchange area with another urban interstate. The trafficway has east/west roadways that provide one-way traffic flow separated by a positive concrete median wall. The westbound roadway consisted of five initial lanes; the two right lanes provided access to the north/south interstate while three lanes continue in a westbound direction. The roadway surface was concrete and dry. The weather was foggy and the posted speed limit was 89 km/h (55 mph).

Vehicle 1, a 2011 Ford Fusion four-door sedan, was being driven by a 68-year-old female driver in the far-right westbound travel lane approaching a traffic slowdown at the interchange. Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling west. Vehicle 2, 2013 Freightliner tractor/trailer, was also traveling westbound in the far-right travel lane approaching the traffic slowdown at the interchange. Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling west, but travel intention later in the interchange was unknown. Vehicle 3, a 2002 Ford Explorer compact utility vehicle, was also traveling westbound in the far-right travel lane approaching the traffic slowdown at the interchange. Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling west, but travel intention later in the interchange was unknown. Vehicle 4, a 2016 Freightliner tractor/trailer, was also traveling westbound in the far-right travel lane approaching the traffic slowdown at the interchange. Vehicle 4 intended to continue traveling west, but travel intention later in the interchange was unknown.

Vehicles 1, 3, and 4 slowed due to traffic congestion at the interchange. Vehicle 2 did not slow and struck the rear of Vehicle 3 with its frontal plane (Event 1). The impact caused Vehicle 3 to travel to the left and into the second travel lane. Vehicle 2 continued to travel west and struck the rear plane of Vehicle 1 with its frontal plane (Event 2). After Event 2, both vehicles continued to move west causing Vehicle 1 to strike the rear of Vehicle 4 trailer with its frontal plane. Vehicle 1, 2, and 4 came to rest in the far-right travel lane. Vehicles 1, 2, and 3 were towed due to disabling damage. Vehicle 4 was able to be driven from the scene.

The driver of Vehicle 1, a 68 year-old female, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner) and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of Event 2, the driver's frontal airbag deployed. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to the trauma center for treatment. She was enrolled as the CIREN case occupant. There was also a passenger in V1 who sustained injuries and was transported to the local trauma center where she was treated and released.