This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of an unrestrained 76 year old male driver of a 2015 Lexus RX350 all-wheel-drive sport utility vehicle. The subject vehicle (Vehicle 1) was equipped with frontal airbags and knee bolster airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions along with (seatback mounted) side airbags and curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. The left front side airbag, left rear side airbag and left curtain airbag deployed as a result of an offset frontal collision with a large deer (event 1).

The crash occurred in the southbound travel lanes of an asphalt surfaced (level) multi-lane interstate trafficway. The north/south trafficway was divided by a narrow (grass) center median, and bordered by W-beam guardrails. The southbound roadway consisted of 4 straight travel lanes which were bordered by rumble strips (i.e. tactile warning device) and W-beam guardrails. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions as the roads were dry. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 89 km/h (55 mph). Vehicle 1 was traveling southbound in the third travel lane (left inboard travel lane) and proceeding straight. The driver reported that a large deer entered the roadway from the east heading towards the west shoulder of the southbound lanes. The driver of Vehicle 1 did not attempt any avoidance maneuvers in anticipation of the impending crash. As the deer crossed the southbound roadway, it entered the travel lane and was impacted by the front left area of Vehicle 1 resulting in minor damage (event 1). At this point, the animal maintained continuous contact with the vehicle’s left side surface resulting in additional (minor) damage. After the impact, Vehicle 1 was driven onto the right (west) shoulder of the southbound roadway where it came to final rest facing south.

The 76 year old male driver of the 2015 Lexus RX350 sport utility was presumed to be seated in an upright posture with the seat adjusted to a mid-to-rear track position. The driver reported to police that he was restrained by the available three-point manual lap and shoulder belt system. However, close analysis of the driver manual belt system revealed that he was in fact, unrestrained. Initial impact of the animal along Vehicle 1’s front structure did not produce a velocity change significant enough to deploy the vehicle’s driver frontal and knee bolster airbag system (event 1). In addition, the impact produced little, if no kinematic response from the driver. Sustained contact with the animal down Vehicle 1’s left side surface did deploy the left front side airbag, left rear side airbag, and left curtain airbag. It seemed unlikely that this continuous contact damage along the vehicle’s left side surface produced any kinematic response from the driver of Vehicle 1. But, the driver’s close proximity to the deployed left front side airbag and curtain airbag did allow for interaction with the inflated membrane(s). A localized smudge mark and distinct scuff marks were documented on the inboard surface of the deployed left curtain airbag, attributed to driver face/head engagement. A scuff mark was also identified on the inboard surface of the deployed left front side airbag which was indicative of driver left chest and/or flank contact.

Following the collision, the unrestrained 76 year old male driver of Vehicle 1 reported to police that he was uninjured; however, he sought medical treatment approximately 6 days later at a nearby hospital, but was transferred to a trauma center where he was admitted for treatment of a serious injury. Vehicle 1 was towed from the crash site due to police-reported disabling damage.