This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 67-year-old male front-seat passenger of a 2017 Toyota Highlander utility vehicle, which was primarily involved in a right-side (center) collision with the frontal plane of a 2002 Ford Mustang, two-door coupe. This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on an asphalt, urban, roadway. The collision occurred at the four-leg intersection of a six-lane east/west roadway. The roadway consists of three travel lanes in each direction separated by a raised concrete median. Both the eastbound and westbound lanes have two dedicated turn lanes at the intersection, one to go north and one to go south. The intersection is controlled by overhead, standard electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The roadway is straight, with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was cloudy and the roadway surfaces were dry. Vehicle 1, a 2017 Toyota Highlander utility vehicle, was being driven east by the 66-year-old female driver in the left eastbound turning lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to turn left and continue traveling north. Vehicle 2, a 2002 Ford Mustang, was traveling west in left-most westbound travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 2 intended to continue driving west. While attempting to turn left (north), Vehicle 1 turned into the path of Vehicle 2, causing the frontal plane of Vehicle 2 to impact the right-side (center) of vehicle 1 (event 1). Vehicle 1 then rolled three quarter-turns (event 2), landing on the passenger side, where it impacted a concrete gore. Vehicle 1 came to rest facing north in lane one of the westbound travel lanes. The vehicle was pushed back into an upright position by by-standers. Vehicle 2 came to rest in lane one of the westbound travel lanes facing in a slightly northwesterly direction. Both vehicles were towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The driver of Vehicle 1 was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The right front passenger was noted to be utilizing his three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seatback airbags, and roof side rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the roof side rail airbags and the front passenger seat backrest airbag deployed. The driver and right front passenger of Vehicle 1 sustained injuries and were transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver and passengers (two) of Vehicle 2 sustained injuries and were transported to a local trauma center. The right front passenger of Vehicle 1 was admitted with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant.