This case focuses on the injury mechanisms of a belted 24-year-old male driver of a 2013 Nissan Cube four-door hatchback (V1), who was primarily involved in a severe, nine-o’clock near side impact with a wooden utility pole of unknown diameter. Vehicle 1 was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and right-front passenger positions, seat backrest-mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions.

This crash occurred during the post-midnight hours (dark, street lamps present) of a winter weekend day, at the right, curbed roadside edge of a two-lane north/south roadway. At the crash area, this bituminous roadway was level, but had a left-turning curve prior to straightening. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 48 kmph (30 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry.

Vehicle 1, the 2013 Nissan Cube four-door hatchback, was being operated by the belted 24-year-old male case occupant in the southbound travel lane. The driver of V1 intended to negotiate the left-turning curve and continue traveling south.

Vehicle 2, a 2004 Nissan Titan pickup truck, was parked, facing south, in a west roadside residential parking lot area, along a narrow curbed grass island bordering the north/south roadway.

As V1 negotiated the left-turning curve, it drifted right and struck a slightly protruded area of the west roadside curb edge with its right front wheel/tire and right rear wheel/tire (Events 1 and 2). The driver of V1 is believed to have steered left and then over-steered right, experiencing a subsequent loss of control as V1 continued traveling southbound. Due to the loss of control, V1 subsequently departed/jumped the curbed west roadway edge again, at the curbed grass island bordering the west side of the roadway, in a left-side leading yaw/slide. At this time, V1’s left side plane struck the wooden utility pole (Event 3). Vehicle 1 is believed to have rotated counterclockwise as a result of this impact and subsequently struck the back plane (cargo bed area) of V2 with its back plane (Event 4) before coming to rest either at or on top of the cargo bed area of V2, leaning moderately toward the right (no rollover implied), and facing an easterly direction. As a result of the crash, all V1’s airbags deployed except for the right-front passenger frontal airbag.

Following the collision, the 24-year-old male driver, and sole occupant, of V1 was removed by responding emergency medical services personnel and transported, by air unit, to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to severe injuries. Both V1 and the parked V2 were towed due to damage sustained in the crash.