This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 15-year-old, female driver with a deployed frontal airbag. She sustained moderate injuries when the compact sedan she was driving was involved in a head-on crash to a minivan followed by a minor side plane impact to an intermediate-sized sedan.

The case vehicle was also occupied by two additional passengers whose injury mechanisms were not evaluated. A belted, 75-year-old, female right front passenger suffered fatal injuries in the crash and was pronounced dead on scene. The 2nd row middle seat was occupied by an 11-year-old female. She was belted, but had positioned the shoulder belt under her arm. She sustained police-reported incapacitating injuries.

The crash occurred at dusk on a dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a two-lane, two-way, east/west, rural highway with a posted speed limit of 89 km/h (55 mph). The bituminous road was straight, on a 2% uphill grade in V1's westbound direction of travel, and had a crown ranging from 2 to 3% in the center of the road. There were no traffic controls in the area of interest.

A 2004 Ford Focus compact sedan (V1) was traveling west in the right lane. A 2014 Chrysler Town & Country minivan (V2) was traveling east in the right lane and following behind a 1996 Buick Regal intermediate sedan (V3). V2 attempted to pass V3 by crossing the center line and moving into the oncoming lane of travel.

V1 and V2 collided head-on in an offset frontal configuration (Event 1). The impact pushed V1 back and it began a clockwise rotation. V1’s rear plane entered the eastbound lane of travel and was struck on the left rear corner by V3 (Event 2). V1 came to rest partially off the road on the eastbound shoulder. V3 came to rest on the eastbound shoulder. Meanwhile, the initial head-on impact also caused V2 to rotate clockwise and travel onto the westbound shoulder. V2 rolled left two quarter-turns (Event 3), coming to rest on its top in the westbound shoulder. V1 and V2 were towed due to damage, while V3 continued in service.

The 15-year-old female driver of V1 was presumed to be seated in an upright position. She was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 11 cm of shoulder belt payout as well as loading of the latch plate. The available retractor pretensioner was actuated and found in the payed-out position at inspection. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub and right top instrument panel airbags deployed upon the event 1 impact. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a Level II trauma center before being transferred to a Level I pediatric trauma center for treatment of moderate injuries. The 75-year-old right front passenger was belted and had the benefit of the front passenger airbag. She sustained fatal injuries and was pronounced dead on scene. The 11-year-old 2nd row middle passenger was belted, but had routed the shoulder belt underneath her arm. She suffered police-reported incapacitating injuries.

The 87-year-old male driver of V2 was reported by police to be belted with the benefit of front and side airbags. He suffered incapacitating injuries and was transported to a local trauma center. The 85-year-old female right front passenger of V2 was reported to be belted and had front and side airbags. She was transported to a local trauma center where she died the day following the crash.

The 57-year-old female driver of V3 was uninjured. She was belted but did not have an airbag deployment.