This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 67-year-old, male driver with deployed frontal and opposite side curtain airbags. He sustained serious injuries when the compact utility vehicle he was driving was involved in a head-on, small-overlap, frontal crash to a compact sedan. No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred at dawn on a dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a two-way, east/west, two-lane, rural highway with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph). The bituminous road was straight and on a 6% downhill grade for V1’s direction of travel. For V2, the road was curved left with proper superelevation and on a 3% uphill grade. V1 had warning signs in its westbound approach for an intersection ahead, as well as a recommended slower travel speed.

A 2011 Jeep Patriot utility vehicle (V1) was traveling west in the right lane. A 2005 Mazda 3 compact sedan (V2) was traveling east in the right lane negotiating the left curve. V2 began encroaching left into V1's lane. The driver of V1 reacted by braking and steering left in avoidance.

V1 and V2 collided head-on in a small-overlap configuration to the front right corner of each vehicle (Event 1). Both vehicles rotated clockwise after impact, coming to rest on opposite sides of the road. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The 67-year-old male driver was presumed to be seated in an upright position. He was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 10 cm of shoulder belt payout, 8 cm of lap belt payout, and loading of the latch plate. The available retractor pretensioner was actuated and found in the payed-out position at inspection. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub, right top instrument panel, and right curtain airbags deployed upon impact. The available left curtain airbag did not deploy. The vehicle did not have backrest-mounted side airbags and no other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.

The 24-year-old male driver of V2 sustained non-incapacitating injuries and was transported to a local trauma center for treatment. Police reported the belt was in use and the frontal airbags deployed.