This case focuses on the injury mechanisms of a belted 23-year-old male driver of a 2016 KIA Forte5 EX four-door hatchback (Vehicle 1), which was primarily involved in a moderate, nine o’clock near-side impact with the back plane of 2006 Chevrolet HHR four-door station wagon (Vehicle 3). Vehicle 1 was equipped with frontal airbags for the driver and right front passenger positions, seat backrest-mounted side airbags for the front outboard seating positions, and roof rail-mounted side curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions.

This crash occurred during the early evening hours (dark, street lights present) of a late fall weekday on a three-lane eastbound roadway, of an east/west trafficway, within the area of an interchange. This bituminous eastbound roadway is straight and consists of three eastbound travel lanes. Approaching the crash area from the west, the roadway has a positive uphill grade which eventually crests and transitions to a downhill grade at the crash area itself. Paved shoulders border the roadway with a noted barrier wall in the median. Although the crash occurred within an interchange area, the interchange did not play a part in the crash. At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. The speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 89 kmph (55 mph).

Vehicle 1, the 2016 KIA Forte5 EX four-door hatchback was initially eastbound, in the center travel lane, and was the last vehicle in a “train” of five eastbound vehicles, all of which were in the center lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to change lanes to the left and pass on the left.

Vehicle 2, a 2014 Honda CR-V compact utility vehicle, was traveling eastbound in the center travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 1. The driver, and sole occupant, of Vehicle 2 intended to continue traveling eastbound in the center eastbound travel lane.

Vehicle 3, a 2006 Chevrolet HHR four-door station wagon, was traveling eastbound in the center travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 2. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 3 intended to continue traveling eastbound in the center eastbound travel lane.

Vehicle 4, a 2007 Honda Accord four-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the center eastbound travel lane, directly ahead of Vehicle 3. The driver, and one passenger, of Vehicle 4 intended to continue traveling eastbound in the center travel lane.

Vehicle 5, a 2007 Hyundai Elantra four-door sedan, was traveling eastbound in the center eastbound travel lane directly ahead of Vehicle 4. The driver, and sole occupant, of Vehicle 5 intended to continue traveling eastbound in the center travel lane.

Vehicle 1 began to change lanes to the left in an attempt to pass Vehicle 2. As Vehicle 1 began the passing maneuver to the left and into the far left travel lane, the right front area of Vehicle 1 struck the back left area of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). This impact produced a clockwise rotation for Vehicle 1 while Vehicle 2 was redirected to the right. Vehicle 1 re-entered the center travel lane while rotating clockwise. At this time, Vehicle 1’s left side plane struck the back plane of Vehicle 3 in the center eastbound travel lane (Event 2). Vehicle 3 was pushed forward as Vehicle 1 continued its clockwise rotation as it departed the roadway to the right. Vehicle 3’s frontal plane subsequently struck Vehicle 4’s back plane (Event 3). Vehicle 1 eventually came to rest at the right roadside after striking a guardrail end with its back plane (Event 4). After impacting Vehicle 4, Vehicle 3 came to rest, facing east, in the center eastbound travel lane. Vehicle 4’s frontal plane subsequently struck Vehicle 5’s back plane (Event 5). Vehicle 4 reportedly spun out and departed the roadway to the right and struck the face of a guardrail, at an unknown location, before coming to rest against the guardrail (Event 6). Vehicle 5 came to a controlled stop at an unknown location. As a result of the crash, Vehicle 1’s driver’s frontal airbag, seat backrest-mounted side airbag, and left side rail-mounted curtain deployed.

Following the collision, the 23-year-old male driver of Vehicle 1 was removed from the vehicle and transported by ground unit to a regional trauma center and hospitalized with minor to critical injuries. Vehicle 1 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported to be uninjured and drove Vehicle 2 away from the scene. The driver and two passengers of Vehicle 3 were transported by ground unit to a local hospital with, reportedly, possible injuries. Vehicle 3 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The driver and one passenger of Vehicle 4 were also transported, by ground unit, to a local hospital with, reportedly, possible injuries. Vehicle 4 was towed from the scene due to damage sustained in the crash. The driver of Vehicle 5 was reported to be uninjured and drove Vehicle 5 away from the scene.