This crash case involves a seriously injured, belt-restrained, 51-year-old female driver of a 2012 Honda CR-V four-door compact utility vehicle, which was involved in a frontal collision with the frontal plane of a 2013 Ford F-250 large pickup.

This two-vehicle collision occurred during the mid-day hours of a winter weekday on a five-lane undivided roadway with a level grade for the north and southbound travel lanes. The posted speed limit was 72 km/h (45 mph). The lanes consisted of two northbound lanes, two southbound lanes, and a two-way left turn lane. The travel lanes were asphalt and curved left heading north to south. There were no traffic controls and it was raining.

Vehicle 1, the 2012 Honda CR-V, was being driven by the 51-year-old female driver (CIREN case subject) in the far-left southbound travel lane, approaching the area of impact from the north. It was stopped in its travel lane behind a non-contact vehicle that was turning left. The driver of V1 intended to negotiate the left curve and continue traveling south.

Vehicle 2, a 2013 Ford F250, was traveling northbound in the far-left northbound travel lane, approaching the area of impact from the south. The driver of V2 intended to travel straight and continue traveling north.

After the non-contact vehicle turned left, V1 started to move south in its travel lane. As V1 gradually accelerated, it drifted left across the two-way left turn lane and into the adjacent northbound travel lane where it struck V2 head-on (Event 1). Vehicle 1 was pushed rearward while rotating slightly counterclockwise and came to rest in the center two-way left turn lane facing in a southeasterly direction. Vehicle 2 rotated clockwise after impact, departed the roadway, and traveled down an embankment before coming to rest on the roadside facing an easterly direction. Both vehicles were towed due to disabling damage.

The driver, who was the only occupant of V1, was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner), and the vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal airbags, seat backrest-mounted hip/torso airbags, and roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. As a result of the impact, the driver's frontal airbag deployed. The driver sustained serious injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment.

The driver of V2 did not sustain an injury.