This crash case involves a seriously-injured, belt-restrained, 36-year-old, 35-week pregnant female driver of a 2016 Honda Accord four-door sedan, which was primarily involved in a frontal collision with the front plane of a 2008 Chrysler Town and Country minivan. This two-vehicle collision occurred during daylight hours on an asphalt, urban roadway. The northbound roadway consists of three travel lanes with the first travel lane as a dedicated right-turn lane onto the interstate on-ramp. The southbound roadway consists of three travel lanes with the third travel lane as a channelized left-turn lane onto the interstate on-ramp. The intersection is controlled by standard overhead, electric, tri-colored traffic signals. The roadway is straight, with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph). At the time of the crash, the weather was clear and the roadway surface was dry. Vehicle 1, a 2016 Honda Accord sedan, was being driven southbound by the 36-year-old female driver in the second travel lane. The driver of Vehicle 1 intended to continue traveling south. Vehicle 2, a 2008 Chrysler Town and Country minivan, was being driven northbound in the third travel lane. The driver of V2 intended to continue traveling north. Per the crash report, the driver of V1 had a medical event which rendered her unconscious causing the car to move forward traveling left through the channelized median, through the intersection and into the third northbound travel lane where the front plane of V1 impacted the front plane of V2. Vehicle 1 rotated counterclockwise and came to rest on the concrete median facing northeast. Vehicle 2 was pushed back slightly and rotated clockwise where it came to rest in the second northbound travel lane facing northeast. The driver of V1 was noted to be utilizing her three-point lap and shoulder belt (with retractor pretensioner). The vehicle was equipped with advanced frontal and roof rail-mounted airbags. As a result of the impact, the steering wheel airbag deployed. The driver of V1 sustained injuries and was transported by land to a local trauma center for treatment. The driver and passenger of V2 sustained injuries and were transported to a local trauma center. The driver of V1 was admitted with serious injuries and enrolled as the CIREN case occupant.