This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a restrained 26-year-old male driver of a 2013 Nissan Sentra four-door sedan (Vehicle 1). Vehicle 1 was equipped with frontal airbags and seat backrest-mounted side airbags for the driver and front right passenger positions. Vehicle 1 was also equipped with curtain airbags for all outboard seating positions. None of the subject vehicle's airbags deployed as a result of a minor severity, oblique angled impact with a 2015 Toyota Corolla four-door sedan (Vehicle 2), nor the subsequent moderate severity rollover event.

The crash occurred at an urban three-leg intersection between a major thoroughfare and residential street. The north/south trafficway consisted of four bituminous travel lanes which were divided by a large grass median and bordered by barrier curbing. The east/west roadway consisted of two bituminous travel lanes (level) which provided access to adjacent residences. In the immediate vicinity of the crash site, the southbound roadway crested at the intersection with the east/west residential street. To the south, the urban roadway transitioned into a downhill (i.e. negative) slope. Traffic control consisted of a stop sign for eastbound (turning) vehicles. The posted speed limit in the vicinity of the crash site was 56 kmph (35 mph) for all traffic. It was daylight, with no adverse weather conditions and the roads were dry.

Vehicle 1 was initially southbound in the outboard travel lane on approach to the three-leg intersection and proceeding straight. Vehicle 2 was facing east on the residential street and attempting to turn right (south) onto the urban thoroughfare. As Vehicle 1 crested the hill, Vehicle 2 entered the intersection to proceed south, into the path of the southbound Nissan. Upon recognition of the impending harmful event, the driver of Vehicle 1 steered left in avoidance and partially entered the southbound inboard travel lane. The front-right area of Vehicle 1 impacted the front-left area of Vehicle 2 (Event 1). This initial impact resulted in minor damage to the case vehicle, and did not alter its pre-impact trajectory into the southbound inboard travel lane. At this point, the combination of steering inputs and negative post-impact slope of the road produced a roll moment as Vehicle 1's center of gravity was tipped outboard of its wheels. This initiated a two-quarter turn left side leading rollover resulting in moderate damage to the top of Vehicle 1 (Event 2). Vehicle 1 came to rest on its roof, straddling the center delineation line of the southbound roadway, facing west. Vehicle 2 came to rest in close proximity to the initial point of impact, in the southbound outboard lane, facing southwest.

The belted 26-year-old male driver of Vehicle 1 was presumed to be seated in a normal upright posture with the seat adjusted to a full rearward track position. The driver's left arm was reportedly braced or resting in a vertical orientation within the left front window area (glazing fully down) as the left hand was positioned against the adjacent roof side rail. At Event 1, the driver of Vehicle 1 initiated a forward (and slightly right) trajectory in response to the one o'clock impact force. Deformation identified on the knee bolster was indicative of interaction with the driver’s left knee. During the subject vehicle's roll moment, the driver was re-directed to the left in response to the non-horizontal force. During Event 2, the driver's left upper extremity was caught between the vehicle's exterior roof side rail and road surface. This contact pattern was evidenced by the semi-circular indentation documented on this component. In addition, skin tissue was found embedded into the contact site. A comparative analysis of the occupant contact evidence to the rollover striations (i.e. rotational orientation between the first and second quarter turns of the rollover event) observed on the vehicle's exterior roof and left side surface revealed that the contact pattern of the driver's left upper extremity continued into the adjacent windshield and header area.

Following the collision, the restrained 26-year-old male driver of Vehicle 1 was transported, by ground unit, to a nearby trauma center and hospitalized with moderate to serious injuries. The driver of Vehicle 2 was reported by police as uninjured. Both vehicles were towed from the crash site due to disabling damage.