This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 32-year-old, male, right-front passenger with deployed front and side airbags. He sustained serious injuries when the minivan he was riding in was involved in a multi-event crash with two other vehicles.

The case vehicle was also occupied by an unbelted driver and two child passengers using child restraints. A 28-year-old female was driving. An eight-year-old female was seated in a forward facing child seat in the second row right seat. A five-year-old male was seated in a booster seat in the third row left seat. All three non-case occupants suffered police-reported non-incapacitating injuries.

The crash occurred during mid-evening hours in the dark on a wet road in the rain. The roadway consisted of a two-way, north/south, two-lane, rural highway with a posted speed limit of 80 km/h (50 mph). The bituminous road was curved right in V1 and V2’s southbound direction of travel with twelve percent superelevation and a four percent downhill grade. There was a warning sign with an “intersection ahead” icon in the area of approach to the points of impact.

A 2016 Chrysler Town & Country minivan (V1) was stopped in the travel lane waiting to turn left at the three-legged intersection. A 2000 Dodge Ram 2500 pickup (V2) was traveling south negotiating the right curve approaching V1 and the intersection, intending to continue straight. A 2005 Honda Pilot utility vehicle (V3) was traveling north approaching the same intersection.

Vehicle 2 did not see V1 stopped in the road in time to avoid a collision. V2 skidded for approximately 73 meters, as reported by police, before striking the back plane of V1 (Event 1). Vehicle 1 was pushed forward into the oncoming lane while rotating counter-clockwise approximately 70 degrees. The right plane of V1 was struck by the front plane of V3 (Event 2). The force of this impact caused V1 to roll one quarter turn to the left (Event 3), where it and V3 came to rest in the intersection. Vehicle 2 came to rest on the west shoulder. All three vehicles were towed due to damage.

The 32-year-old male right-front passenger was presumed to have been seated in an upright position. He was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by ten centimeters of shoulder belt payout as well as loading of the latch plate and d-ring. The available retractor and buckle pretensioners were actuated with the belt found in the payed-out position at inspection. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor pretensioners. The right top instrument panel, right backrest-mounted hip/torso, and right roof rail-mounted curtain airbags all deployed during the Event 2 near-side impact. No other airbags were available for this occupant position. The force of the Event 1 impact caused the seat backrest to be deformed by occupant movement. This occupant was transported to a local hospital, then subsequently to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries.

The 28-year-old driver was not wearing the belt restraint, but had the benefit of the deployed steering wheel hub, left knee bolster, left backrest-mounted hip/torso, and left roof rail-mounted curtain airbags. The available retractor and buckle pretensioners were actuated with the belt found in the unused, locked position at inspection. The eight-year-old female occupant was restrained by a child seat in the second row right seat. The seat was installed incorrectly, using the lower anchors in combination with the lap and shoulder belt. However, there was no evidence of seat malfunction. The right roof rail-mounted curtain airbag deployed for her position. The five-year-old male occupant was sitting on a booster seat in the third row left position and was restrained by the three-point lap and shoulder belt. The left roof rail-mounted curtain deployed for his position. These three occupants were reported by police to have non-incapacitating injuries and were not transported for treatment.

The 27-year-old male driver of V2 was reported to have been belted with no deployed airbags. Police reported non-incapacitating injuries and no transport to a medical facility. The 36-year-old male driver of V3 was reported to have been belted with no deployed airbags and no injuries.