This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 30-year-old, female driver with a deployed frontal airbag. She sustained severe injuries when the intermediate-sized coupe she was driving was involved in a multi-event crash to a utility pole and a large tree. No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred during the late evening hours in the dark on a dry road under clear skies. The roadway consisted of a two-way, east/west, two-lane, rural highway with a posted speed limit of 89 km/h (55 mph). The bituminous road was curved right with 5% superelevation and on a level grade at the beginning of the approach. There were no traffic controls in the area of interest.

A 2003 Honda Accord coupe (V1) was traveling in the right lane when it crossed left across the center line and then departed the road to the left. V1 traveled a significant distance on the roadside before entering the tree line area.

V1 struck a 20 cm diameter utility pole with its left plane (Event 1), engaging it in a sideswipe damage pattern. V1 continued into the tree line, striking a tree branch with its windshield (Event 2). V1 then struck a 36 cm diameter tree with its front plane (Event 3), coming to rest at impact with the tree. The utility pole and the tree sustained minor wood chips, but were otherwise undamaged. V1 was towed from the scene due to damage.

The 30-year-old female driver was presumed to be seated in an upright position. She was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 23 cm of shoulder belt payout, 5 cm of lap belt payout, and loading of the latch plate. The available retractor pretensioner was actuated and found in the payed-out position at inspection. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub and right top instrument panel airbags deployed at impact with the Event 3 tree impact. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a hospital before being transferred to a trauma center for treatment of severe injuries.