This investigation focused on the injury mechanisms of a belted, 53-year-old, female driver with a deployed frontal airbag. She sustained serious injuries when the compact utility vehicle she was driving (V1) was involved in a frontal, right-angle crash to a large pickup truck (V2). No other passengers were in the vehicle.

The crash occurred during early evening hours on a dark but lighted, wet road under cloudy skies. The roadway consisted of an intersection between a suburban connector road and a neighborhood. There was a two-way, two-lane, east/west suburban road with a posted speed limit of 72 km/h (45 mph) joined with a two-way, two-lane, north/south neighborhood road controlled with stop signs. For V1’s westbound approach, the bituminous road was curved left with 4% superelevation and on a 1.5% downhill grade. For V2’s northbound approach, the road was straight and on a 4% uphill grade.

A 2013 Honda CR-V utility vehicle (V1) was traveling west in the right lane approaching an intersection. A 2003 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 pickup (V2) was stopped facing north at a stop sign.

Vehicle 2 proceeded north across the intersection and was struck on the right plane by the front plane of V1 (Event 1). The impact caused both vehicles to travel off the northwest corner of the intersection, where they came to rest. Both vehicles were towed due to damage.

The 53-year-old female driver was presumed to have been seated in an upright position. She was belted at the time of the crash as evidenced by 10 cm of shoulder belt payout and loading of the latch plate. The available retractor pretensioner was still retracting normally, but reported as actuated by the event data recorder. The vehicle was not equipped with anchor or buckle pretensioners. The steering wheel hub airbag deployed upon impact. The available first-row seat backrest and curtain airbags did not deploy. No other airbags were installed. This occupant was transported to a trauma center for treatment of serious injuries. The opposing vehicle was driven by a 41-year-old male. He was reported to be belted with minor injuries and did not require transport.